in this video we are going to complete
our CD pipeline by adding steps to
approve and deploy to a live environment
this video is mainly practical as we
will complete the CD pipeline we built
in the previous videos in particular we
will add a stage to manually approve the
deployment and then deploy to a live
environment finally I will also show you
some resources to help you writing
pipeline scripts without any further ado
let's complete the CD pipeline by adding
stages to the Jenkins file at the end of
the Jenkins file we add a stage approve
and the stage deploy live and the stage
test UAT live
let's start with the stage approve this
stage invokes the function approve the
function uses the DSL instruction
timeout to set up a time at period of
one day this means that the pipeline
will wait for a user's manual input for
up to one day before a both in the stage
and hence the pipeline belt we typically
rely on a manual approval before a
business critical deployment to
production as we saw in the previous
section in a continuous delivery
scenario we may need approval from the
business before deploying to production
the next stage is deployed live this is
similar to the other deploy stages we
analyzed in the previous videos but
passes the streamed live
in function deploy we add an additional
else if block setting the container name
to up on the school life and the port to
80 this is the same mechanism we
analyzed in the previous video for
deploying to the staging environment on
a successful completion of the pipeline
built we will have three containers
based on the same docker image but
running on three different ports after
deployment to live
we run user acceptance tests to check
that the deployment is working as usual
we execute the stage test the UAT live
and we pass port 80 to the function run
u 80 as we saw previously this allows to
ping the local host on the given port
and check that the web application is up
and running now let's go to Jenkins and
amend the configuration of the pipeline
job we started in the previous video
click on the pipeline job and on
configure go to pipeline scroll down and
under script path amend the name of the
Jenkins file - Jenkins file as you can
see on the companion repository on
github the code for the pipeline with
all the stages we used so far is
included in this file so there is no
need to type it
finally click on save and then on build
now
the pipeline starts
you can inspect the log for each step
if any of the stage breaks the pipeline
will stop and the build will break
the pipeline stops at the approval stage
and waits for user input
over on the approval stage and you're
asked to approve the deployment to life
click on proceed
the stages deploy live and test UAT live
complete and the pipeline ends
successfully
now let's double check our web
application with funny kittens on all
the environments this is the live
environment local host without port
defaults to port 80
and these are the staging
and death environments
congratulations you build a fully
functioning CD pipeline
to finish off I want to show you some
useful resources to further build your
pipeline scripts you may need them for
the exercises
when you create a pipeline job in
Jenkins the link to the pipeline syntax
shows up in the sidebar menu click on it
and you get a snippet generator to
create code for pipeline steps for
example say you need to inject a secret
into a pipeline script but you don't
know how to script it click on sample
step scroll down and select with
credentials bind credentials to variable
and the bindings click on add and select
secret text you may remember from
section 3 that we created a secret token
for the slack integration and this token
is still securely in Jenkins and the
variable type a name of variable for
example token
and click on generate pipeline script
Jenkins automatically generates some
pipeline code that you can copy paste
into your Jenkins file in this case you
can use the variable token inside your
script as its value has been injected in
a secure way it's not going to be shown
in plain text the other resource I want
to show you is the syntax reference for
the declarative pipeline this is
currently accessible at this URL on the
Jenkins website every true as it
contains predefined steps and examples
to write the clarity of pipeline scripts
this is the end of the demo for this
video and the end of section 4 let's
recap what you learned in this section
in terms of theory we describe the
concept of pipeline as code and analyzed
how it is implemented in a Jenkins file
we also worked with declarative and
scripted pipelines and created simple
pipelines in Jenkins by the pipeline
plugin finally we introduced docker
which is one of the tools we used to
build our CD pipeline in the practical
part we implemented a CD pipeline with
funny kittens using Jenkins docker and
Python so now that's what you learned in
this section by heading to the companion
github repository in here you will find
few questions to test your Jenkins
knowledge and the practical exercise you
will also find some suggested solutions
to the exercises and if you want you can
interact with me by a github in the next
section we are going to explore blue
ocean which is the new user interface
for Jenkins